Merge the Dockerfile for reproducible builds (#1)
flatcar/shim-review: README.md

*******************************************************************************
### What organization or people are asking to have this signed?
*******************************************************************************
Flatcar Container Linux

*******************************************************************************
### What's the legal data that proves the organization's genuineness?
The reviewers should be able to easily verify, that your organization is a legal entity, to prevent abuse.
Provide the information, which can prove the genuineness with certainty.
*******************************************************************************
Company/tax register entries or equivalent:
(a link to the organization entry in your jurisdiction's register will do)

> Cloud Native Computing Foundation

Reviewer: Lets get the legal data for CNCF in here

Author: Added the address & the tax details

The public details of both your organization and the issuer in the EV certificate used for signing .cab files at Microsoft Hardware Dev Center File Signing Services.
(**not** the CA certificate embedded in your shim binary)

Example:

```
Issuer: O=MyIssuer, Ltd., CN=MyIssuer EV Code Signing CA
Subject: C=XX, O=MyCompany, Inc., CN=MyCompany, Inc.
```

> N/A

Reviewer: Lets register with the Microsoft Dev Center and fetch this certificate

Reviewer: (might take a couple of days)

*******************************************************************************
### What product or service is this for?
*******************************************************************************

> Flatcar Container Linux is a fully open source, minimal-footprint,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flatcar Container Linux is a community driven, fully open source, minimal-footprint,
```

A short guide on verifying public keys and signatures should be available in the [docs](./docs/) directory.
*******************************************************************************
Yes, These binaries created from the 15.8 release tar. Please refer to

> the ebuild for source: https://github.com/flatcar/scripts/blob/main/sdk_container/src/third_party/coreos-overlay/sys-boot/shim/shim-15.8-r2.ebuild#L9

Reviewer: Could you add a second link to the Manifest next to the ebuild, that has the sha512 checksum

Reviewer: and can we reference release tags instead of "main" in such links.

Author: @jepio The PR was merged after the last release, so we don't have shim-15.8-r2 in the release tags.

Author: Same here. Add tag to point to last release.

```
a79f0a9b89f3681ab384865b1a46ab3f79d88b11b4ca59aa040ab03fffae80a9  /mnt/host/source/.cache/distfiles/shim-15.8.tar.bz2
```

*******************************************************************************
### URL for a repo that contains the exact code which was built to result in your binary:
Hint: If you attach all the patches and modifications that are being used to your application, you can point to the URL of your application here (*`https://github.com/YOUR_ORGANIZATION/shim-review`*).

You can also point to your custom git servers, where the code is hosted.
*******************************************************************************

> The repo is [here](https://github.com/flatcar/scripts/). The shim ebuild can be found [here](https://github.com/flatcar/scripts/blob/main/sdk_container/src/third_party/coreos-overlay/sys-boot/shim/shim-15.8-r2.ebuild).

Reviewer: can we reference a release tag that has the final ebuild?

Author: Updated to link to the last release.

*******************************************************************************
### What patches are being applied and why:
Mention all the external patches and build process modifications, which are used during your building process, that make your shim binary be the exact one that you posted as part of this application.
*******************************************************************************

> We carry a patch because the bundled gnu-efi build is implemented in a buggy way that can break when built in parallel. We've hit this in the nightly sdk build. The patch included fixes this. We have also submitted a PR upstream [rhboot/shim#643](https://github.com/rhboot/shim/pull/643).

Reviewer: Please add a link to the  patch in our repo

### Is upstream commit [eadb2f47a3ced5c64b23b90fd2a3463f63726066 "lockdown: also lock down previous kgdb use"](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/commit/?id=eadb2f47a3ced5c64b23b90fd2a3463f63726066) applied?
Hint: upstream kernels should have all these applied, but if you ship your own heavily-modified older kernel version, that is being maintained separately from upstream, this may not be the case.
If you are shipping an older kernel, double-check your sources; maybe you do not have all the patches, but ship a configuration, that does not expose the issue(s).
*******************************************************************************
Yes, we include all mentioned upstream commits.

*******************************************************************************
### Do you build your signed kernel with additional local patches? What do they do?
*******************************************************************************

> We carry seven kernel patches in Flatcar, which are explained below:

Reviewer: Provide a link to directory with patches: https://github.com/flatcar/scripts/tree/main/sdk_container/src/third_party/coreos-overlay/sys-kernel/coreos-sources/files/6.6

> - z0003-Revert-x86-boot-Remove-the-bugger-off-message.patch: Derive relative path for srctree from CURDIR. This enables relocating source and build trees to different roots,

Reviewer: Something is wrong in this line - it should be `z0001`

provided they stay reachable relative to one another.

> - z0002-revert-pahole-flags.patch: Add a patch to revert pahole flags that halts the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- z0002-revert-pahole-flags.patch: Add a patch to revert pahole flags that make build non-reproducible.
```

> - z0003-Revert-x86-boot-Remove-the-bugger-off-message.patch: Revert a kernel patch that we use the store the dm-verity hash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- z0003-Revert-x86-boot-Remove-the-bugger-off-message.patch: Revert a kernel patch removes the space that we use to store the dm-verity hash
```

> - z0004-efi-Add-an-EFI_SECURE_BOOT-flag-to-indicate-secure-b.patch: Add an EFI_SECURE_BOOT flag that can be passed to efi_enabled() to find out whether secure boot is enabled.
> - z0005-efi-Lock-down-the-kernel-if-booted-in-secure-boot-mo.patch, z0006-mtd-phram-slram-Disable-when-the-kernel-is-locked-do.patch & z0007-arm64-add-kernel-config-option-to-lock-down-when-in-.patch: Lock down the kernel if booted in secure boot mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Downstream Lockdown patches:
   - z0004-efi-Add-an-EFI_SECURE_BOOT-flag-to-indicate-secure-b.patch
   - z0005-efi-Lock-down-the-kernel-if-booted-in-secure-boot-mo.patch
   - z0006-mtd-phram-slram-Disable-when-the-kernel-is-locked-do.patch
   - z0007-arm64-add-kernel-config-option-to-lock-down-when-in-.patch
```

*******************************************************************************
### Do you use an ephemeral key for signing kernel modules?
### If not, please describe how you ensure that one kernel build does not load modules built for another kernel.
*******************************************************************************

> We use the kernel config `MODULE_SIG_KEY` to check the integrity of the kernel modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes we use an ephemeral kernel module signing key, generated uniquely for each kernel build.
```

For example, signing new kernel's variants, UKI, systemd-boot, new certs, new CA, etc..

Skip this, if this is your first application for having shim signed.
*******************************************************************************
 This is our first submission for shim signing.

*******************************************************************************
### What is the SHA256 hash of your final shim binary?
*******************************************************************************
```
7d58c577de1a7ac080108764000b0da038ba73939826608a807b8a7e65017d7e  /build/amd64-usr/usr/lib/shim/shimx64.efi
b44a113f1c7bfc32da9f07dfbb79e4b0951434fe5e315bb3a80834d89311b004  /build/arm64-usr/usr/lib/shim/shimaa64.efi
```

*******************************************************************************
### How do you manage and protect the keys used in your shim?
Describe the security strategy that is used for key protection. This can range from using hardware tokens like HSMs or Smartcards, air-gapped vaults, physical safes to other good practices.
*******************************************************************************

> We store our CA in HSM token, and the signing keys are stored in Azure Keyvault which are backed by FIPS 140-2 Level 2 backed HSM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We store our CA offline in an HSM token, and the signing keys are stored in Azure Keyvault backed by a FIPS 140-2 Level 2 HSM.
```

Hint: run `objcopy --only-section .sbat -O binary YOUR_EFI_BINARY /dev/stdout` to get these entries. Paste them here. Preferably surround each listing with three backticks (\`\`\`), so they render well.
*******************************************************************************
```
sbat,1,SBAT Version,sbat,1,https://github.com/rhboot/shim/blob/main/SBAT.md
shim,4,UEFI shim,shim,1,https://github.com/rhboot/shim
shim.flatcar,1,Flatcar Container Linux,shim,15.8-r1,security@flatcar-linux.org

sbat,1,SBAT Version,sbat,1,https://github.com/rhboot/shim/blob/main/SBAT.md
grub,4,Free Software Foundation,grub,2.12,https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/
grub.flatcar,1,Flatcar,grub2,2.12-flatcar3,https://github.com/flatcar/flatcar
```
We do not provide with fwupd, fwupdate, and systemd-boot.

*******************************************************************************
### If shim is loading GRUB2 bootloader, which modules are built into your signed GRUB2 image?
Skip this, if you're not using GRUB2.

Hint: this is about those modules that are in the binary itself, not the `.mod` files in your filesystem.
*******************************************************************************

> The GRUB2 standard modules built into our image are:

Reviewer: `search_part_label` is in both lists, standard and non-standard. Which one should it be in?

Reviewer 3: Non-standard. I'll fix.

* search_part_label
* search_fs_uuid
* gptprio

*******************************************************************************
### If you are using systemd-boot on arm64 or riscv, is the fix for [unverified Devicetree Blob loading](https://github.com/systemd/systemd/security/advisories/GHSA-6m6p-rjcq-334c) included?
*******************************************************************************
We don't use systemd-boot.

*******************************************************************************
### What is the origin and full version number of your bootloader (GRUB2 or systemd-boot or other)?
*******************************************************************************
[Upstream GRUB 2.12](https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/) with [Fedora and Flatcar patches](https://github.com/flatcar/scripts/tree/main/sdk_container/src/third_party/coreos-overlay/coreos/user-patches/sys-boot/grub). The Fedora patch is generated from a branch (currently fedora-42) of the [rhboot/grub2](https://github.com/rhboot/grub2) repo. Together, these form version `2.12-flatcar3`. This is shown in user-visible parts of GRUB.

> Flatcar needs Fedora's patches to fix Secure Boot on arm64 and the TPM Event Log on amd64. Flatcar's own patches add enhanced GPT functionality and the ability to read the verity hash from within the initrd. The Flatcar patches have been carried over from CoreOS, where they were originally written at least 8 years ago. See this [README](https://github.com/flatcar/scripts/blob/main/sdk_container/src/third_party/coreos-overlay/coreos/user-patches/sys-boot/grub/README.md) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flatcar needs Fedora's patches to fix Secure Boot on arm64 and the TPM Event Log on amd64. Flatcar's own patches add enhanced GPT functionality and the ability to extract a verity hash out of the signed portion of the kernel binary. The Flatcar patches have been carried over from CoreOS, where they were originally written at least 8 years ago. See this [README](https://github.com/flatcar/scripts/blob/main/sdk_container/src/third_party/coreos-overlay/coreos/user-patches/sys-boot/grub/README.md) for more details.
```

Skip this, if you're not using GRUB2 or systemd-boot.
*******************************************************************************
N/A

*******************************************************************************
### How do the launched components prevent execution of unauthenticated code?
Summarize in one or two sentences, how your secure bootchain works on higher level.
*******************************************************************************
N/A

*******************************************************************************
### Does your shim load any loaders that support loading unsigned kernels (e.g. certain GRUB2 configurations)?
*******************************************************************************
No

*******************************************************************************
### What kernel are you using? Which patches and configuration does it include to enforce Secure Boot?
*******************************************************************************

> Our Kernel is based on 6.6 LTS kernel. We have GH actions, which regularly monitors for new maintenance releases, and the patches are applied soon as soon as the our CI is green.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our Kernel is based on 6.6 LTS kernel. We have GH actions, which regularly monitors for new maintenance releases, and the patches are applied as soon as our CI is green.
```
